TITLE:


PROJECT/ACTIVITY: Provide specific details on the faculty mentoring project for which you are seeking a grant.  Include the proposed project/activity dates in your response. If your project is awarded a grant, the project details may not deviate from the original proposal submitted here, and funds may not be reassigned to another faculty member or project.  
The goal of the project is to hold several professional development sessions focused on building and honing skills related to research and data management. Research in psychology and science as whole is increasingly moving toward the use of technological solutions for larger and more diverse datasets, as well as open science principles. We plan to bring in experts in the field to lead sessions in how to use these tools effectively. We will hold 8 such sessions over the course of Spring '25 and Fall '25 (four per semester). Each session will be approximately 1-hour in length, and will include a tutorial, troubleshooting, and discussion/question and answer period. Proposed topics are: Using Git, Coding in JULIA, Creating and Maintaining a Database, Long-term Data Storage, Managing Big Data, Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA), Machine Learning Approaches to Observation, and Project Management. We have begun identifying experts to lead each topic (e.g., Ellen Shapiro for Git). 

RATIONALE: In an essay of at least 250 words, provide a rationale as to how your faculty mentoring project or activity is related to faculty teaching excellence, dissemination of scholarly works, or grant proposal development in support of faculty. Please note that this grant is not intended for faculty-student mentoring projects.
  In the wake of a "replication crisis," psychology and other fields have made strides toward conducting research that is open and transparent, shareable, and more diverse. Those who are most successful are leveraging technology used in computer science, data science, and other fields to carry out their program of research. At the same time, funding agencies and journals are applying pressure to researchers to use these tools by requiring that we meet certain standards of transparency, diversity, and statistical power. In order to remain fundable, mentor the next generation of researchers, and contribute to the goal of becoming an R1 institution, it is imperative that psychology faculty are educated in the wide variety of technological solutions available to improve our research programs. As with any new technology or skill, there is a learning curve to use it effectively and efficiently. By bringing in field experts to conduct tutorials and assist in troubleshooting, we aim to accelerate our position on that curve above and beyond what can be achieved through self-taught methods.
  One popular approach to developing a more replicable scientific field is the use of Git and GitHub. Git/GitHub are gold-standard for large-scale collaborations, making code and data broadly available, and version control. Collaborations facilitate larger and more diverse participant samples; this is something we should aspire to as a field but also something that is required by reviewers of NIH and NSF grants. Making code and data available is also required by many funding agencies and journals; Git/GitHub is a popular choice. Version control (who edited what and when) is an ongoing struggle both between collaborating labs and within a single research lab. As such, using Git/GitHub holds promise for improving within-lab workflow and making our studies more attractive for funding and publication. Unfortunately, using Git and GitHub are not straightforward. The investigators on this proposal attempted to learn Git as a self-directed group and were unable to make satisfactory progress over the course of weeks. 
  In addition to Git and GitHub, there are other technologies that would strengthen are research, but that we currently lack the bandwidth to learn. For example, the latest software that conducts advanced linear modeling (a statistical technique used by many psychologists including the faculty on this proposal) is programmed in a language called JULIA--an entirely new coding language to the one we currently use (R). Likewise, those of us who conduct behavioral observation painstakingly annotate behavior from video, requiring hundreds of hours of research assistant time and effort. There are machine learning algorithms that can automatically code many behaviors. This would save us substantial time and money, but we lack the know-how to use these algorithms. We hope that by conducting expert-led development sessions, any researcher on campus using these popular methods can gain the skills to become a better (and more fundable and publishable) researcher and faculty mentor. 

MENTORING GROUP SUCCESS: Describe how the strength of this faculty mentoring group network will grow as a result of the project this grant may fund. The goal of this grant is for you to participate in activities or projects that will help your faculty mentoring group be successful. 
The faculty mentoring group's network has the potential to grow in several ways. Foremost, each session will bring in an expert from outside of psychology. This will provide connections to faculty in other colleges and universities as well as individuals in industry. Additionally, we will make each development session open to any faculty on campus and will invite graduate students who could benefit from these skills as well. We hope that shared development of these new skills will serve as natural origins of collaboration across campus. 
  
